ISLAND CONNECTIVITY HUB MEETINGS   
Running Notes for 2025

Zoom link: [https://islandinstitute.zoom.us/j/4666900551](https://islandinstitute.zoom.us/j/4666900551)  
Link to List of C-Hub Community Partners is [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A558ld2lly9oXMI4xhmbAJ5vJBT-eubvVxRrezDQyis/edit?usp=sharing)  
Link to 2024 Meeting Notes Doc is [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QSs3T-i96iY00bIbDZNumFNaDfCp12Xxc6u6oxf8Pz0/edit?tab=t.0)   
Link to Google Drive is [HERE](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1P0uwqeSWbaKGLYzr74zmThA-k20mtVcf?usp=sharing) 

| Tuesday, July 1, 2025 Attendance: Linda Nelson, Grace Upham, Stacey Roberts, James Rutter, Marlaina Jones Facilitator/note-taker: Christa Welcome Marlaina\! Intros, general updates Marlaina Jones, Connections Navigator at the hub Kim Gertz, Northeast Center for Occupational Health and Safety \- runs the Healthy Harvesters program behind community health worker position James, Haystack Fab Lab Morgan Witham, Deer Isle Adult and Community Education director Marketing/Communications Banner to be installed Thursday\! Hopefully matched to flyers with QR code Flyer: Grace has been creating flyer/template in Canva \- shared screen for group to review Google phone number \- 1(207)200-1521 and new email address [info@islandconnectivityhub.org](mailto:info@islandconnectivityhub.org)  Hours: Marlaina‚Äôs working days will be Mon-Thurs 11am-5pm or by appointment Stacey will be at the hub Tues/Wed/Thurs  Fridays? Relationship of the hub to the farmer‚Äôs market? Good chance for exposure, but hard to manage space issues. Consider having Town/Hub space at corner of building Grace can be available in the hub on Fridays ‚Äì Issue with bathrooms not intended to be heavily used by public (can lock) Partner pop-up events on Fridays?  Focus on supporting business and local entrepreneurship Need people to manage the space and keep equipment safe \- Grace could be available Friday mornings Website proposal from James Link to [working document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d8_QWlHQCFW6X2f6_bx7vsfk5YL9tk2ThMZYonmP93A/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.yjrd4e3adf19) ‚Äì everyone look at this, make comments/provide helpful feedback on direction, share good photos and stories with James Next week‚Äôs meeting 50:50 split regular agenda items and website development Summer Schedule Tuesday July 8th, 7:30am \- HIP breakfast Marlaina is here through Aug. 6th, then Aug. 15-25 Linda is away Marlaina/Grace engagement calendar/plan Open House \- Thurs. August 7, 4-6pm Show off all the equipment  Community partners tabling Wait for community ‚Äúgrand opening/ribbon cutting‚Äù event later fall Partner engagement ‚Äì Marlaina & Grace  Marlaina to create better organizational system/spreadsheet of [Community Partners](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A558ld2lly9oXMI4xhmbAJ5vJBT-eubvVxRrezDQyis/edit?tab=t.0)    Community Center financial planning event this summer [Q2 Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XKvPRuV13E2bqiR8GZXPpyC9ouoN6Cczhyq2t9_GG7E/edit?tab=t.0) ‚Äì Morgan and Stacey submit info on this doc or directly to Linda  Photos Project (construction/equipment) update Finally have a plan for  Programmatic updates (esp. Adult Ed & Community Health Worker) Compelling stories Fundraising strategy Decision making ‚Äì updated MOU Operating budget ‚Äì what are programs and the capacity needs to run them? Fundraising approach Next Steps: Next meeting \- July 8 \- 50/50 old biz (incl. Finalize Q2 report) & website focus  Equipment/furniture inventory & ordering  Decision making process and co-habitating in space July 15 \- Meeting to plan Aug. 7 open house, open to community partners July 22 \- 4:30-6:30 deeper dive core partners meeting for governance/structural decision making  |
| :---- |
| **Tuesday, June 24, 2025** Attendance: Christa Thorpe (note-taker), Amber Blum, Linda Nelson, Kim Gertz, Morgan Witham, Grace Upham, James Rutter    ~~Check in/updates~~ Quick intros as Amber and Kim meet for first time \- Amber Blum started supporting Island Institute's role as Regional Broadband Partner for Hancock/Waldo counties in June 2024, also served as Digital Navigator capacity for NDEC; Now supports Island Institute‚Äôs Clean Energy projects and wrappuing up broadband work Summer schedule Link to [Internship description](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EUYQf2_Wqbmz3l-UEhiCk-10vDPA9mbv_KqoY987SP8/edit?tab=t.0) & [draft 6-wk internship work plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Zrs_jPLJMxEfVol9g0RmdDX5-Vq4w6WkGcdh_v64xYk/edit?tab=t.0) [NDIA Digital Navigator Toolkit](https://www.digitalinclusion.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/2025-Digital-Navigator-Program-Toolkit.pdf)  Background Linda Nelson brought Marlaina on based on past apprenticeship relationship and will be one of the supervisors \- personal connection with big picture overview Schedule once a week check-in, Linda/Marlaina ‚Äì Tuesdays 3pm Week 1 \- set the stage, goal is to have hub provide 360 degree connections between hub and spokes  Grace & Marlaina team up when applicable to show up in community Consistent hub open hours Healthy Island Partners Senior coffee hours & community breakfast Island Community Center Stonington Library Deer Isle Chase Emerson library (Anne Douglas, Tech Tuesdays) Downeast Community Partners?  Stacey‚Äôs connections through Healthy Harvesters Haystack \-  James training Marlaina \+ few other partners on 3D printer Later in Week 2? July 10/11 Move forward with website development  \*QR code for email capture or directing people to islandconnectivityhub.org Island Institute support orientation week Decide on later weekly check-ins based on orientation Amber support in person onboarding to digital navigator role  GOAL \= \***poster with hours ready by July 4th**  Morgan \- will be on site Wed-Fridays Adult Ed will have Mail Chimp accounts for multiple orgs ‚Äì Grace send to James Marketing/logo updates  [Link to Marketing & Communications Folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1InkS4d0EY0goflx3HILBAbX8BcDLpYI9?usp=drive_link) [Link to Logo Concepts 4th edition](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MWEL63Jj2X2KOIJM_etC3DVEaYtuwyy-/view?usp=sharing) (color\!) From Samantha: *Attached is the latest draft of the brand toolkit. Let‚Äôs focus on finalizing **color and typography** so I can deliver the polished version along with all the logo assets (SVGs and any other file formats you need). I‚Äôd love your eyes especially on the **color direction**:I‚Äôm recommending a deep blue paired with a light ‚ÄúSalt‚Äù tone as our primary colors ‚Äî clean, modern, and easy to use. I‚Äôve included a few sample variations for review; there‚Äôs no need to adopt a variation if you don‚Äôt want to, but if one feels right, please share your thoughts.  We can also work on that as a future project.* Great direction \- James ready to start building website at [islandconnectivityhub.org](http://islandconnectivityhub.org)  Other [Q2 report in process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XKvPRuV13E2bqiR8GZXPpyC9ouoN6Cczhyq2t9_GG7E/edit?tab=t.0) Any fundraising plans?  Stories to highlight? Next steps: Christa in Deer Isle-Stonington Thurs/Fri \- to check-in with Grace, and meet Marlaina Mon. June 30th \- Marlaina starts Continue refining 6 week work plan **SCHEDULE COMMUNITY PARTNERS MEETING \+/OR OPEN HOUSE**   |
| **Tuesday, June 17, 2025**  Check-in/Updates Morgan \- just got new Hi-Set inquiry, shows that state‚Äôs new adult ed website and referral system seems to be working\!  Before Morgan heads to Haystack (June 22-July 4), finalizing Grace‚Äôs Year 2 work plan; have her June/July work plan in place; students know Morgan is off most of summer, work days will be W-F, including farmer‚Äôs market presence on Fridays Puffin Passages talk tomorrow \- Adult Ed has refreshments, did FB promotion and flyers; Morgan can make WiFi signs with C-Hub logo Linda/Town Lots of good response for Puffin event; past bird talks have had 20-30 people; Updating town webpage to promote Richard; thinking about the follow-up from April social media/marketing workshop and ways community partners can increase collective efforts for social media ‚Äì supported by Maine Office of Tourism (Puffin event is 3rd) Use of C-Hub space for event ‚Äì using the lobby for reception \-  tables/clothes/food, borrowing chairs from ICC; print-outs of schedule posted throughout the space; Makerspace room for the talk itself [Q2 report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XKvPRuV13E2bqiR8GZXPpyC9ouoN6Cczhyq2t9_GG7E/edit?tab=t.0)  Northeast Center Summer schedule & capacity [Internship description](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EUYQf2_Wqbmz3l-UEhiCk-10vDPA9mbv_KqoY987SP8/edit?tab=t.0) Grace‚Äôs summer work plan has tasks but flexibility on time Question: how much should they be working as a team, vs. having more open hours at C-Hub with coverage trading off? Need communication/outreach before we need coverage ‚Äì relates to Grace‚Äôs next step, **Create 1 page flyer with open hours** Use [Organizational info doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18XBV2Rp7EZWSMmaIIfOdD2YyEdsnSoEZqHC6PmC3H0M/edit?tab=t.0) to pull together pager Christa put logos in [Marketing/Communication](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1InkS4d0EY0goflx3HILBAbX8BcDLpYI9) folder Ready for active outreach supported by Marlaina \- e.g. Farmers Market days \- have survey, 1 pager about C-Hub that highlights 3 components ‚Äì health, workforce support, tech help Website \-Group supports using MCF funds forJames to create functional website Grace and Marlaina to join weekly programming collaborative meetings   NDEC technical support specialists training proposal Christa received $25k train-the-trainer proposal from NDEC ‚Äì not feasible, but Christa can ask about whether they can share their curriulcum  Link to [NDIA Digital Navigator Toolkit](https://www.digitalinclusion.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/2025-Digital-Navigator-Program-Toolkit.pdf) ‚Äì build off of this and consult with Anne and other librarians who provide tech support Moving toward comprehensive NDEC training is the  Logo/marketing next steps ‚Äì Grace to use the new logo to draft a pager  Other Next steps Summer meeting cadence ‚Äì sticking with Tuesdays at 4pm Christa circulate Q2 report **this week** with assignments to help populate Next Meeting \- Tue. 6/24 Grace to join next week \- group review pager Amber join \- share 6 week work plan for intern (Amber) Set early August date open house Fall 2025 Community Partners Meeting \- finalize mission statement, role chartering, collective funding effort for community-wide NDEC TSS training Christa to update [2025 Meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zXA3p5Qh4qj5k9BijppQNqOxrHrebVA1LbA2RPbjkjE/edit?tab=t.0) before sending these meeting notes out  |
| Monday, June 9, 2025 Check-in/Updates/Agenda adjustments Linda: Congressional delegation \- 3 offices \- visited today, capped off with tour of Connectivity Hub \- please with what they saw; working on getting technology ordered, capacity challenges; ordered rack to hold laptops, next step to hold laptops; 3D printer and laser set up in Fab Lab Congressional offices are very supportive of digital equity work \- hearing the message of its importance Capacity: Marlaina‚Äôs internship starting June 30th \- will do best with clear structure and timeline Island Institute/Christa: HCPC/Island Institute thinking through how to divide our capacity \- maybe able to help with device ordering?  NDEC meeting upcoming \- broader opportunity to train 5 or more volunteer navigators in Deer Isle-Stonington?  Stacey expects to see some panic around reporting backlog in the fall Christa report back Stacey \- spending 6 days/month in Augusta for Community Health Worker training (won‚Äôt be here next Monday); Larry at MCCF working on 2 grant applications for continued funding for Community Health Worker position, expanding beyond fishermen James \- STEM program last week, research/residency, can share ideas and content with this group, looking at future connection to community problem solving initiatives June-August sprint of Haystack campus programs Pivoting on-campus fab lab model to more of a research center vs. open makerspace for rest of campus, wasn‚Äôt sustainable (‚Äújob shop‚Äù for artists); Hoping the artists/makers/residents coming to the lab will be able to do more meaningful work and research; Experience of past couple years help inform questions around how to staff an open makerspace  Linda‚Äôs comment/Q: How does cutting-edge research/programming at Haystack feed into community? Pilots? Community presentations? How to make the hub a hub of information?  Fab Lab residents do 2 engagements: Expose high schoolers/young people to innovative workforce opportunities Work with Haystack artists Possible 3rd engagement depending on the resident \- Community engagement? Expand communication more intentionally to DIS and peninsula Possible future application component for Fab Lab residents \- e.g. proposal for projects connected to Blue Economy? Seeking funding for C-Hub programs \- how expertise can inform local community probem solving (Our Town Grant \- NEA funding is slow and esp. challenged now); Need resources for human capacity Talk of the Towns summer series \- more targeted \- local resilience?  Generally and locally, what is resilience? C-Hub as key piece of how we‚Äôre defining our resilience ‚Äì access to tools, information, jobs ‚Äì what is the role of the C-Hub? Morgan ‚Äì trying to wind down year, esp. for few remaining students with measurable objectives outstanding; Not contracted for summer so need to figure out how to take vacation amidst PD classes, etc. Risk of burn-out ‚Äì twice the number of students this year as last year\!  Working on internship job description and setting up Grace to manage Adult Ed/Hub DICAEplaced 8th in state adult ed for measurable gains/success \- transformative year for the program ‚Äì incredible value of the C-Hub space, expanded hours; Continued challenge of lack of advocacy/understanding of adult ed on part of admin and school board New capacity \- Tara McKeknie \- will help build future staffing plans and budget ramifications; prepping for wind down of II Fellow  Grace‚Äôs summer priorities ‚Äì community outreach, farmer‚Äôs markets, gathering community input on time/dates for digital lit programming and other education relevant to marine workforce; finding instructors, able to bring on as independent contractors; Looking for resources beyond NDEC‚Äôs entry-level digital literacy classes Linda requests continued statistics sharing from Adult Ed engagement; and during this summer‚Äôs planning period, considering how to engage community partners such as libraries ‚Äì specific asks of Chris and Nina; also aligning with next year‚Äôs school and community programs Morgan is wondering about how much digital skills training youth are getting Linda also mentioned ‚ÄúMedia literacy‚Äù \- knowing your sources (of real interest to congressional delegation) ‚Äì **note for Christa \- access to NDEC curriculum for community to tailor?**   Upcoming  June 12th Working Waterfront Newspaper reporter coming in this week, we‚Äôre set up well enough for that June 18th Project Puffin ‚Äì Community members  June 26th Isle au Haut broadband celebration June 30th Internship starts ([job description](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EUYQf2_Wqbmz3l-UEhiCk-10vDPA9mbv_KqoY987SP8/edit?tab=t.0)) **July‚Ä¶ Getting the Makerspace set up** ‚Äì 3D printer and laser cutter have arrived \- can we have these out June 18th? James can help with this, *this week*; will be on vacation next week Adult Ed/Eric capacity to help make simple benches out of historic bleachers ‚Äì James to send Eric pictures of design **First week of August \- open house? (PLAN @ NEXT MEETING?)**  Reporting **(Next meeting, still plenty of time)** [Q2 report doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XKvPRuV13E2bqiR8GZXPpyC9ouoN6Cczhyq2t9_GG7E/edit?tab=t.0) ready to fill out \- Portal opens July 1? Upcoming \- Island Institute CDS Report to Small Business Administration Marketing progress, logo and next steps Morgan sharing screen for brief discussion ‚Äì 3rd edition was emailed to group \- **folks will spend additional time looking and email group feedback**  James appreciated Samantha‚Äôs expertise and how things are evolving and defers to her on continuing in this great direction with the lock-ups ‚Äì group **likes 1st (p.7) and 3rd (p.9),** less so 2nd with lines around logo somehow detracting from it  Really like p. 9 \- emphasizing ‚ÄúIsland‚Äù and Hub‚Äù in size Next steps: Next Community Partners Meeting? Summer ‚Äúlaunch‚Äù? First week August \- focus on this next meeting  |
| Monday, June 2, 2025 Facilitator/Note-taker: Christa Attendees: Morgan, Linda, Kim, Samantha Check-in/Updates (4:00-4:10) Touched base on Hancock/Waldo/Knox coalition meeting this Wed.  [Summer Internship job description](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EUYQf2_Wqbmz3l-UEhiCk-10vDPA9mbv_KqoY987SP8/edit?tab=t.0) \- Christa to clean up and circulate tomorrow Evaluation/Reporting \- [link to folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1fzl1BgrGx5tJ110BCMMkVw8SgAviPrL9?usp=drive_link) (4:10-4:20) Northeast Center process (Kim‚Äôs email) [Data Innovation Project Fellow proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HQH-RKjY7ue9hpRoVE8hR7VimgpaHkeh8w2cC_39qJg/edit?tab=t.0) (Mike Felton, applying by June 6\)  MCA Q2 report \- due July 15  ‚ÄúGrowing pains‚Äù üôÇ Process/policy for space usage changes (4:20-4:30) Current space issue? Traffic through adult ed and acoustic privacy ‚Äì Multi-purpose or shared room on 2nd floor Accessibility of 2nd floor space \- elevator  Marketing (4:30 w/Samantha) Difference between last week‚Äôs review and this week‚Äôs \= further refinement to align on a logo Looking at specific marks The Rise ‚Äì Group likes bold strong ‚ÄúIsland‚Äù and ‚ÄúHub‚Äù emphasized, and de-emphasizing ‚Äúisland‚Äù; overall, not the favorite mark, but if we were going this direction, the upper left corner feels the most right The Beacon \-hard to give equal attention to Island and Hub Rays ‚Äì group liked ‚ÄúF‚Äù and ‚ÄúH‚Äù \- ‚Äúfunfetti‚Äù (agree playful/fun is good but prefer more digital, symmetrical rays) Two Bush didn‚Äôt feel right  Next Steps (4:55-5:00) June 9 meeting agenda (will circle back on MCA Q2 report to-do‚Äôs) and continue Logo refinement (color & font) with Samantha June 10th \- 3-4pm evaluation team will meet (won‚Äôt include core partners since you‚Äôre all participants in the eval. process)  |
| Tuesday, May 27, 2025 ‚Äì **Branding/marketing Meeting** Attendees: Linda, Morgan, James, Kim, Stacey, Samantha Notetaker \- Christa [Link to ICH Concepts](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1i31Eh8friC3AIaMb6EYJXS4-L7Xlj96H/view?usp=sharing) 4:00 Core Partners Check-in: Northeast Center/Kim \- Feedback/input on evaluation plan?  Plan evaluation focus at meetings in June after today‚Äôs marketing push Consider NEC evaluation in context of other evaluation opportunities (e.g. Data Innovation Project) and MCA reporting requirements Telehealth access piece needs extra attention \- Equipment/services planning Stacey has some ideas based on interaction with Bucksport clinic  4:30 \- Marketing Decisions (Samantha join) Review the deck together at our meeting on **Tuesday at 4:30pm**. During that session, we‚Äôll aim to: Align on a preferred symbol direction (or shortlist) Discuss tone and approach for the logotype Surface any early feedback around visual direction, clarity, or fit Discussion notes: Background/overall direction: Island Connectivity Hub \- concepts doc first several pages based on landscape analysis and input from Morgan and James Missing Project Launch and MCCF logos Part of the org name that will lead to questions is ‚ÄúConnectivity‚Äù  ‚ÄúGorilla testing‚Äù \- after we align on mark direction, show to 3 different people How do we show this ‚Äúnew‚Äù idea without losing deep community identity Color can be a tool to bridge past and future Visual Directions: The spur \- reactions: Tree echos new state license plate; controversial state flag Concepts 2, 3, 4 The Ledge \- liked the bottom mark in the series \- ledge and tree preferable to the stylized nature of The Spur The Rise \- group liked the resonant-to-DIS nature of this one;  The Emblem \- again, echoing new license plate too much The Beacon Connectivity elements are good; multiple trees Not as similar to state flag since there are two trees Dash marks at top of circle did a good job representing digital Stonington School house mark \- not right for logo, but could have future use in hub‚Äôs materials? Alignment: Leaning toward Beacon, with elements of the Rise  open hash marks on circle Consider birds instead of sun/moon? Or cloud just for fun? Next steps: Christa send Island Institute‚Äôs old logo (similar to rise) and also Project Launch and MCCF Next meeting \- Christa send around agenda by Friday Discuss Splash page? Email capture/newsletter Samantha join at 4:30   |
| Monday, May 19, 2025 Facilitator \- Christa Notetaker \- Yvonne Attendance \- Morgan, Stacey, Kim, Linda, Samantha Hawkins, James Introductions: Christa \- Island Institute, co-leading Future of Fishing Yvonne \- II, moving to Maine Seacoast Mission to focus primarily on supporting the outer island schools Stacey \- community health worker based in the hub Kim \- coordinates projects in fisheries, works with Stacey, based in New York State Linda \- Hub \- 3 legged animal including community health  James \- Haystack Morgan \- Deer Isle Community and Adult Ed Samantha \- graphic designer working on our logo and supporting products Outreach & Events Marketing plan (Samantha)  Has done some preliminary thinking based on our brief Thinks it can be done in less than 6 weeks, if we can make decisions quickly, aggressive timeline, Samantha is committed to this work/project Needs a name, once we have that, first rounds could be available in about a week, need 2-3 rounds of revisions to settle on a logo mark, then work on colors, typography, brand guidelines including considering co-branding and including partners, ex. community health Summer visibility ‚Äî website? Banner out front? Multiple considerations  Building itself \- is more than the hub, building can be called Stonington School House Idea \- Island Connectivity Hub Are there examples of brands we like? Morgan \- wants to serve the outer islands Suggestion \- weekly cadence through June (Monday‚Äôs at 4pm) until this project is complete Schedule: Aim to have a first draft by early next week, meet on Tuesday, May 27 at 4pm, first 30 minutes will be discussion then Samantha will join Check-in/Updates Island Institute  Business Resilience Grants ([flyer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19CfikJ4Zr9p5T4SgQ6wpv5FrUekVJ7Pp/view?usp=sharing), [application](https://grants.islandinstitute.org/s/funding-program/a10S6000002WvtFIAS/business-resilience-grants-fy25)) Yvonne is going to Maine Seacoast Mission Town of Stonington \- TofT on May 21 re Rural Ed, the C-Hub, Mike Felton, etc. Christa will send out an invite to the community partners Maine Entrepreneurs Event on Thursday, Lunch and Learn \- Tom Rainey will be there instead of Emily Lane, aquaculture focused entrepreneurial support, Linda will send out an email Resource \- WCCC‚Äôs aquaculture course, all on line \- https://wccc.me.edu/professional-development/pathways-in-sciences-engineering-mathematics/aquaculture/ Morgan: Working with a remote student, grateful for the promethean board Idea \- a marine business-based math curriculum, including digital components, could cover Algebra 1 & 2 and geometry, help take something abstract and put it in context, consider a meeting with MMSA, MCCF (Skippers), DOE, etc.  James \- new programs director\!\! Will lead to clarity around tactics for the next few years, Fab Lab \- could become more of a center for research rather than a place for traditional teaching like the other programs, will help clarify short term/long term goals Linda note \- ‚Äúfabrication‚Äù does work, while ‚Äúmakerspace‚Äô is more artistic and might not resonate w/local audience MCCF \- working on their strategic plan This process will help clarify Haystack‚Äôs role in the maker space at the hub Kim \- Evaluation plan  Collecting data on reach initiatives, people Stacey is serving, proposing a 2 phased approach, how are the structure and function of the hub impacting individuals in the community  Considering a survey and interviews to understand the impact of the hub, grant timeline \- want to do surveys and interviews this summer, and repeat them again next summer to chart change, who should conduct the interviews? Likely colleagues from Basset who are external evaluators, Kim will make a document to overview the process Linda \- appreciation for this, summer is both good and bad  Using the ‚Äòorg chart‚Äô to ensure representation  They have a sample survey, can add questions if needed Capacity (relevant to next Tues. core group meeting \- will add to that agenda) Possible summer intern / tech help: Marlaina Jones Idea \- Get her trained as digital navigator through NDEC? [https://digitalequitycenter.org/join-us/ndec-volunteer-digital-navigator-program/](https://digitalequitycenter.org/join-us/ndec-volunteer-digital-navigator-program/) Linda will check beck with Marlaina if she‚Äôs still interested/available  Schedule for being open/staffed? Ways for people to sign up to use space/tech; schedule and process for design work, etc. Other Evaluation Plan Evaluation plan update \- Northeast Center How hub relates to community level outcomes: How it‚Äôs operating, where it has most influence, perceived impacts Tools \= surveys and in-depth interviews Stonington and St. George are interested in a 2025-2026 Applied Research Fellowship \- [Learn more and apply here](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__datainnovationproject.org_applied-5Fresearch-5Ffellowship_&d=DwMFaQ&c=euGZstcaTDllvimEN8b7jXrwqOf-v5A_CdpgnVfiiMM&r=MgmBFLP5NudbzPcdZkB88n4tEs_X5LAUB461hTDg9GE&m=e8f8S_ISAs-Sqa7og-hEQJqg8KV_1lcSa6DQPrmJDxOCLUphSMiqUTPUE38wUvJ6&s=8Pot_jQk0PpbBsyNmU-brgS1eycHjWJOxeqaRY0dutc&e=) by **June 6** for a fellow who will start September 2025\. Storytelling/Advocacy Yvonne created an Earned Media Folder for articles [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hsljKIujzQAb6ugyxpM0EoKeU_R0HN58oU6pAaj04_8/edit?usp=sharing) Digital Equity Act funding cancellation Calendar Notes May 22 MCE Aquaculture round table May 27 MCCF \- Fishermen safety/Fire Drill Conductor training \- info [here](https://www.facebook.com/photo?fbid=1096551532500891&set=a.551991620290221)  Wk of Aug. 26 \- II Future of Fishing partners convening at hub?  Next Steps Check [Meeting Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zXA3p5Qh4qj5k9BijppQNqOxrHrebVA1LbA2RPbjkjE/edit?tab=t.0)  Next meeting \- Tue. 5/27 @ 4pm Core group meetings weekly Mondays through June   |
| Monday, May 5, 2025 \- Community Partners Meeting in person at the hub Facilitator \- Yvonne Notetaker \- Sam Attendance \- Craig Hutchinson, Morgan Witham , Grace Upham, Linda Nelson, Kimberley Gertz (remote), James Rudder, Alexa Dayton, Butler Smythe, KIm Hutchinson, Chris Ross, Molly Miller (remote) Notes are [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yBz_Ghy1ALdQmGoWHzQDD5IPsSCOe95QNBRnxumTcaM/edit?usp=sharing).  |
| Monday, April 28,  Facilitator/Notetaker: Yvonne Attendance: Sam, James, Morgan, Kim Christa and Mandy unavailable 1\. Check-in/Updates Kim:  \- Evaluation proposal has been drafted, questions, timelines, who should be interviewed and surveyed, who should be involved? Kim will be in touch with Christa when she is back from vacation and schedule a meeting \- Quarterly Reporting \- Linda will share it, a lot of it is financial, and also community health metrics, how many people have been served, what issues are arising \- NIOSH funding has been cut, Linda attended a meeting with Senator Collins office, need to stay on top of it, Julie appreciated Linda‚Äôs attendance \- 3 articles published about the healthy harvesters program \- Yvonne created an Earned Media Folder for such articles [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hsljKIujzQAb6ugyxpM0EoKeU_R0HN58oU6pAaj04_8/edit?usp=sharing) [https://www.newsbreak.com/share/3873662947176-new-stonington-project-wants-to-get-island-fishermen-health-care?\_f=app\_share\&pd=01BL7VFW\&lang=en\_US\&send\_time=1743090667\&trans\_data=%7B%22platform%22%3A0%2C%22cv%22%3A%2225.12.1.3%22%2C%22languages%22%3A%22en%22%7D\&sep=ns\_push\_exp\_rt\_bucketv12-control%2Cns\_local\_strategy\_25q1\_exp-v2%2Cns\_foryou\_blend\_exp\_25q1-v7%2Cns\_foryou\_model\_exp\_25q1-v2%2Cns\_foryou\_rank\_exp\_25q1-v6%2Cns\_foryou\_recall\_exp\_25q2-v8\&s=i3](https://www.newsbreak.com/share/3873662947176-new-stonington-project-wants-to-get-island-fishermen-health-care?_f=app_share&pd=01BL7VFW&lang=en_US&send_time=1743090667&trans_data=%7B%22platform%22%3A0%2C%22cv%22%3A%2225.12.1.3%22%2C%22languages%22%3A%22en%22%7D&sep=ns_push_exp_rt_bucketv12-control%2Cns_local_strategy_25q1_exp-v2%2Cns_foryou_blend_exp_25q1-v7%2Cns_foryou_model_exp_25q1-v2%2Cns_foryou_rank_exp_25q1-v6%2Cns_foryou_recall_exp_25q2-v8&s=i3) [https://coastalfisheries.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Healthy-Harvesters-Island-AdVantages-March-20-2025.pdf](https://coastalfisheries.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Healthy-Harvesters-Island-AdVantages-March-20-2025.pdf) [https://www.newscentermaine.com/article/news/health/healthy-harvesters-program-health-care-more-accessible-fishermen/97-c7e5f85f-abed-4ece-8713-ea52add5ea64](https://www.newscentermaine.com/article/news/health/healthy-harvesters-program-health-care-more-accessible-fishermen/97-c7e5f85f-abed-4ece-8713-ea52add5ea64) \- TV, radio, including conservative outlets are a good way to go Stacey: \- 3 new people \- Maine Central News interview helped bring people in Morgan:  \- budget crunch time, final budget meeting is May 6, a school board member came in the space today\!\! Interested in connecting with Chelsea, Important for the community to ‚Äòsee‚Äô what they get for their money, tricky messaging, includes funding to support young families \- connects to reducing ACES, early intervention   \- CDL training in Hancock County is underway \- NDEC \- excel class coming soon, quickbooks in the works James \- working on campus \- nice seasonal change,  Interesting case study \- Pat Shepard \- Marine Maine Safety applied for a CDC grant, novel marine safety device (kills the engine if you are pulled overboard), approached Haystack to do a prototype as an education opportunity, example of a unique local thing that could have a broader reach, might be a good opportunity for the connectivity hub Gets at staffing needs for the c-hub, we may want to look for someone with more of an engineering background  Sam:  \- wrapping up webinars, low turn out but good content, SBDC relationship is established \- outreach with fishermen, will share results \- MCE lunch is exciting Linda: \- elevator may take some room from the makers space, waiting for drawings Updates: Tech for the connectivity hub \- telehealth tech questions \- Stacey has taken an initial look, Morgan and James have developed a purchase list for the hub, sent it to Linda, approved by the town Diverse devices, lowest hanging fruit, most interest to our target audience \- chrome book, android, ipad \- apple education terms of service have changed, laptops they chose should be relevant for 7-8 years, 3-d printer, digital cutter (fabrication tools may engage fishermen to design their own stuff), multimedia computer (storytelling is a good entry point, opportunity for people to tell their own story instead of waiting for someone else to tell it) Good start \- room to buy more as needs emerge, we will need to do a market survey once we get started for next tools Tangible digital tools to engage fishermen initially Some tables have arrived 2\. Logo [Revised Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AafBiiyD4ejJJ8q7zuaTnixkZu8Xsan1_3wl7gNw41s/edit?usp=sharing) Need to tweak dates Yes to hosting the aquaculture lunch \-  Emily Lane and Linda connected at the Fishermen‚Äôs Forum, scheduling a lunch to include local aquaculturists James or Morgan to invite Samantha to the May 5 meetng 3\. Prep for May 5 \- next week‚Äôs partner meeting ([link to agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yBz_Ghy1ALdQmGoWHzQDD5IPsSCOe95QNBRnxumTcaM/edit?tab=t.0)) 4\. Upcoming Events May 5 Community Partners Meeting May 5th Final CSD Budget Workshop- 5:30pm RPAC May 21 \- Talk of the Towns \- ‚ÄòNew Ways to think about Rural Education‚Äô May 22- Aquaculture Lunch 12-1pm 5\. Other Data Innovation Project Applied Research Fellow [Application](https://datainnovationproject.org/applied_research_fellowship/?mc_cid=b2452f3f13&mc_eid=5bfa5c2681) \- due June 6 Next Steps: Linda and Morgan to have a strategy session about marketing offerings   |
| Monday, April 14, 2025  Facilitator/Note-taker \- Christa Thorpe Attendees: Sam Belknap, Morgan Witham, Linda Nelson, Mandy Roone, Stacey Roberts 1\. Intros & Updates Sam Belknap, Director of Island Institute‚Äôs Center for the Marine Economy; joining to support strategic alignment, as we see the Stonington hub as a critical community-driven response to changing marine economy, shared goals with II [Future of Fishing](https://www.islandinstitute.org/priorities/marine-economy/future-of-fishing-toolkit/) project    Christa Thorpe, senior community development officer, Island Institute; update from MCA Digital Opportunity Networks grant \- ‚ÄúCoastal Community Hubs‚Äù concept proposal submitted by our partners at HCPC to bring digital navigator support to hubs wasn‚Äôt invited to apply, as MCA was looking for more statewide projects. Morgan Witham, Deer Isle Adult Ed Director; update from Maine Adult Education (DOE) *was* invited to apply to MCA DON grant \- looking to standardize digital offerings across state adult eds \- pre-assessment, train-the-trainer curriculum standardization, etc. Linda Nelson, Town of Stonington Economic and Community Development Director, in midst of MCA Connectivity Hub Q report \- need some narrative from partners on stories of impact of hub \- 2-3 sentence talking points. Mandy Roone, Northeast Center for Occupational Health and Safety \- NIOSH got a 92% cut in staff ‚Äî re-focusing attention to legislative action; ***(Christa follow-up note \- How can we all support?)*** Stacey Roberts, MCCF Community Health Worker; happy that someone showed up for support, word of mouth will slowly build trust; Attending Land and Sea forum on April 28th  James Rutter, Director of Haystack Fab Lab \- last week was the shift/move from Deer Isle office to summer campus \- moving fab lab, planning for next year, budgeting, etc. 2\. Debrief DMR Meeting on April 8 ([Christa‚Äôs draft notes here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-63iF-X0gpwXHi9ZlB9medo38gkryF-N6MZYcu-WKn4/edit?usp=sharing)) Morgan recapped \- loosely organized process/planning worked well for meeting needs of attendees \- Carla email introduced DMR staff to Morgan and Christa who helped recruit attendees  17 participants \- good mix of community members and geography (from Bremen to Machias\!) \- understanding of the issues they‚Äôre seeing; the participants trained last week will start receiving DMR‚Äôs newsletter, which   Next steps: Linda will give brief recap to Stonington select board, especially Dickie, at next Monday‚Äôs SB meeting, and plan for a future select board presentation with more detail ‚Äì let town and local dealers \- Stacey, Grace, Melissa, and Morgan are all available to support digital reporting needs  3\. Next order \- tech \- before May 1 to avoid tariff increases Get orders in ASAP \- expected price spikes Apple/computers may be exempt, but point is that we need to  Next steps: James send around the spreadsheet with original order info \- sit down with Morgan and Stacey to prioritize tech needs and get to Linda in time to circulate to  4\. May 21 Talk of the Towns focused on C-Hub and more Most recent talk of the towns had close to 100 attendees \- focused on process of creativity and innovation that arts and heritage orgs bring to communities, esp. the intergenerational transfer of knowledge/skills ‚ÄúNew Ways to think about Rural Education‚Äù  Connectivity Hubs, Experiential learning, Irrelevance of  Speakers \- Mike Felton will join from St. George, Rebecca Grax \- principal at DIS, had a school in Bridgeport, Yvonne (or island institute) & Kim Hutchinson, Skippers? Linda will check in with MCCF  Audience: Congressional delegation planning to be at this one James Rutter will be there, able to speak to Haystack  Stonington \- Travis \-  Next steps: Christa keep C-Hub folks looped in on next steps for Business of Lobster course 5\. Logo Update Morgan spoke with Samantha about prioritizing her original scope for a phased cost and approach ‚Äî see if she can Community Partners meeting on May 5 as input opportunity?  6\. Upcoming Meetings/Events  Ideas for Initial agenda for May 5 meeting with Community Partners Mission statement, progress on Logo and branding work Need to pare the ‚ÄúDog and pony show‚Äù \- e.g. for Peninsula Tomorrow meetings \- broader regional outreach and updates Promotion and connecting between hub and spokes ‚Äî example of Chase Emerson connection, Morgan working through partnership to offer on-site at library  Provide bullet points of all the stuff happening at the hub Christa to invite Butler and outreach to veterans Compelling agenda in advance ‚Äî Christa draft, check with Yvonne, and **send around this week** How to address staff capacity needs for hub operation/digital equity support FY27- DIACE aiming to hire full time adult ed instructor with dedicated hub capacity  Town has a Maine Service Fellow coming in May \-C-hub is outside scope, but could be related Grand opening/ribbon cutting: There will need to be 2 ‚Äúgrand openings‚Äù  (1) for launching the makerspace/later summer and fall programs and engagement (2) when the elevator and full renovation is finally complete (longer timeline, TBD based on contractors) 7\. Check meeting schedule Consider new meeting time/date starting in June? (TBD, but 4-5pm *does* work for Christa who will likely be new standing facilitator) April 28 \- core partners, final planning for Community Partners meeting 8\. Tabled next mtg: IDEA \- Data Innovation Project Applied Research Fellow [Application](https://datainnovationproject.org/applied_research_fellowship/?mc_cid=b2452f3f13&mc_eid=5bfa5c2681) \- due June 6  9\. Next Meetings:  April 28 \- core group May 5 \- community partners [MCA Q1 Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HsEd9CuPThmDZv4RRCuVn_3rfkP6Z1F1OxWDeBvn5mM/edit?usp=sharing) \- Submitted April 15 Expect same format for future reports and factor in to meeting agenda for more advance prep Q2 due July 15, Q3 due October 15, Q4 due Jan. 15 |
| Monday, March 24, 2025 Attendance \- Christa, Yvonne, Stacey, James, Morgan, Mandy, Perry, Linda 1\. Check Ins/Updates Yvonne \- Changes at Island Institute Christa \- MCA \- Tech Help for ME [overview](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xiqaklNSPphc3TDv99Axg0aTgxyTV6eHB8JHfv08pHY/edit?tab=t.0) [Form](https://survey123.arcgis.com/share/b2939241590d456495bbe1287bd5ce54?portalUrl=https://chart.maineconnectivity.org/portal) \- Linda to fill out? Due April 15 Resource for any Mainer to access free wifi, get tech help, take classes, etc. Morgan \- Grace Upham \- new fellow started on Friday Linda April 7 conflict Just ordered furniture for the Makerspace \- coming in soon James Building has 5 cameras going, Linda is watching, Makerspace door has a pin code, keyless entrance system Colors \- grey, white, neutral Mandy \- Data meeting last week (see notes below) NEC has people interested in the evaluation process, working on a plan and will come back for feedback soon St. George is interested in learning more, want to collaborate/work in parallel 2\. Progress on Logo  \- [proposals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19BqE122XHWoIqGYrmA-bygiqB3ckB50gLjok_18GWAY/edit?tab=t.0) Linda identified 2 qualified candidates, 2 different interpretations Samantha \- more of a branding focus, user experience Susan \- more design/straight forward logo Morgan Samantha \- curious/excited about the project, might be too costly but seems interested in the C-Hub either way, valuable community resource Susan \- is interested, but not as passionate Discussion: We need another meeting to further develop our mission/vision, etc. to help inform the design work, Samantha may be able to facilitate a meeting to get the content/clarity we need  We need an accessible interface/website to meet the needs of the folks we are serving, need a welcoming digital presence for people who aren‚Äôt comfortable with the virtual world Can Samantha adapt to our community‚Äôs reality? Hands-on, not as digital oriented Who is the right person to design the website vs. how it looks stylistically Samantha is embedded in the community, has an understanding of the community, can help the community ‚Äòsee‚Äô themselves in this work Clarify \- designing an online experience is different from this initial design proposal, watch out for scope creep Discussion:  negotiate \- modify what she proposed or ask her to cut it in half, go back to Samantha and develop a sequenced scope to help bring down the cost and spread it out over time Will  she be part of our team?  MCA will support our approach. Can she facilitate a meeting to help get to the core pieces we need for the design work to move forward. What is the name of this thing? Importance of the history, also need a new name DISCo Hub was well received at the Fisherman‚Äôs Forum ‚ÄòThe Old School‚Äô or ‚ÄòSchool House‚Äô is an important identity too 3\. Prep for Community Partners Meeting on April 7 Conflict \- Town has grants for the business community, contracted with a photo firm, creating assets for off season events \- ex. Wings/Waves/Woods, Home for the Holidays They will be here on April 7 & 8 \- they are doing outreach on April 7 at 4pm in the Adult Ed classroom  Changing it to May 5, 2025 \- Christa will be on vacation 4/25-5/7 4\. Upcoming events: April 8 \- DMR training at the C-Hub [List of Attendees](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11pQFeJIrDTFRdhveDbxpdV42RJ7AMm0euonUvWSe1WQ/edit?gid=0#gid=0) 5\. Next meeting: April 14 \- core group C-Hub, 4pm |
| March 24, 2025 Recap: James has been in conversation with the program officer and with Perry about whether Haystack is a good fit.  Question about capacity for supporting an Americorp fellow, no additional money to help defray the cost of supporting the person. Our scale is questionable.  Haystack‚Äôs afterschool programming is not enough to provide enough work for 2 positions (can divide it up, fractional service member years), ex. Could have a full time summer person and then a different person doing school year work OK to have other orgs (ex. Adult Ed, DISHS) with similar work join in.  If there is a throughline, cohesive logic model, then it could work. Morgan: What is Haystack‚Äôs scope of work, want to align with that Maker‚Äôs Space is a likely place for collaboration, focus on tech skills, and also be responsive to community needs Demand is more for professional suite training \- ex. Spreadsheets, quick books, etc., not a clear fit for the FabLab Make and Takes can be the way in to attract adults Good way to increase service in the near term Haystack‚Äôs ideas for the Fellow/scope of work:   Make and Take programming \- can be similar to the afterschool programming activities School year \- curriculum development, 2 weekly engagements for after school programming Summer \- High school internship program \- facilitating youth development program/internship  Concept Stem Education Boot Camp \- don‚Äôt want to develop new programming, but would require that we develop a stem education boot camp training program to onboard the fellows, could be a long range benefit for the C-Hub down the road Some safety training on the equipment, project based Education theory \- see 1, do 1, teach 1 Yvonne Idea \- Look into what St. George is doing to integrate PK-8 curriculum into the Makerspace, could lead to PD opportunities with teachers to strengthen the connection between the school and the C-Hub Technology Discussion: There will be need for coding in the future as boats become more computer based, bigger question \- how do rural communities benefit from/train for new technologies Cyber security? It is offered at HCTC, but not at the high school High priority for MCA Morgan is taking a train the trainer course on personal finance (and is also taking entrepreneurship) \- includes cyber security \- Nationwide course through Adult Ed Entrepreneurship is relevant to Haystack \- help artists become more successful II‚Äôs Creative Economy Hub \- https://www.islandinstitute.org/creative-economy-hub/  |
| March 18, 2025 C-Hub evaluation discussion with Bassett Research Institute Attendance \- Christa, Molly, Linda, Stacey,  Mandy Roome, Julie Sorensen, Kristin Pullyblank BLUF \- Mandy Roone called a meeting with C-Hub partners and NED researchers who  are interested in supporting the broader needs for data collection at the hub, including evaluation of the community-driven process Island Institute has been facilitating to define the partnerships, structure, and programming. Notes:  First question on Goals \- what folks want from an evaluation Linda: Connectivity Hub /Town of Stonington needs to be able to report to MCA \- How many people are we serving, and how many have we touched Christa shared additional context on demographic data needed based on digital equity act/covered populations Pamela \- evaluating efficacy of networks and structural  Julie: couple different purposes of evaluation/data for community-driven projects ‚Äî  baseline \- use for grant applications, etc Mid-course corrections Pamela \- looking at community systems\* Also looking at many of the metrics this group has been discussing \- impact of the community health worker goal  Kristin \- In creating the Connectivity Hub goals \- *how* did you make decisions  How did you build relationships as community partners What were the challenges/constraints Christa‚Äôs next steps: Email Mandy to thank her for organizing and ask if she had any questions Pull in Nick & Sam for a follow-up conversation on II interest in this opportunity  |
| Monday, March 10, 2025 Attendance \- James, Yvonne, Stacey, Mandy, Morgan, Christa, Linday 1\. Check Ins/Updates James security system is installed\! Time to order more technology Hosting a group from Virginia Tech \- robotic art, afterschool art \- bringing people from the Haystack network into the community programming Stacey Contact at the Forum, but not a lot of follow up yet It takes time, just need a couple of key people to get things started Mandy NEC \- evaluation \- Pam and Kristin \- do a doodle, Linda, Yvonne and Christa, maybe someone from MCCF Signage \- MCCF logo on Stacey‚Äôs door Morgan Adult Ed \- college/career transitions and high school completion \- good broad pool of students Budget season \- helps that we‚Äôve been working with the town, optimistic despite a conservative vibe on spending Linda Getting the word out about Stacey, have a stack of flyers at the town office Fishermen‚Äôs Forum So busy Christa MCA Digital  HCPC \- likely submitted an application that rolled in potential for capacity at St. George and Stonington C-Hubs Funded opportunities: $24  million coming to Maine at some point, NTIA \- sharing [NTIA Alignment Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kCMBc8rK908DduXR_EdWaFagxa4Qg6vgrtyVxP-A8qg/edit?tab=t.0) Christa and Amber will pull up C-hub original applications to help do some of the organizing on outputs and timelines, preparing for more funding opportunities for C-Hubs What is the staffing model for St. George C-Hub? Could be helpful for Morgan‚Äôs budget meeting. How many people do they serve? What are the metrics between the two people. St. George will be launching in the fall of 2025\. St. George CDC is a key partner that brings some capacity.  3\. Logo plan Set up meetings with 2 interested designers (Susan and Samantha) In person with James and Morgan and Stacey, zoom in NEC, II Times: Monday, March 17 \- 10:30-noon, or maybe after 3 Tuesday, March 18 \- maybe Linda to send contacts to James, he will help coordinate Should we open it up more broadly? Maybe, let‚Äôs meet the  2\. Fishermen‚Äôs Forum Debrief and Follow Ups FoF Event \- send a copy of Mike‚Äôs slides to this group, using it as a model for how to frame mission/vision, focused on impact Mike‚Äôs slides, script and II‚Äôs FoF slide deck are [HERE](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/13V8utzmNEG8q9XXnoFzH-pcKn8_zX230?usp=sharing) NOAA \- SeaGrant \- very disruptive, seems OK for at least through the Spring, long-term is ?, will go to court and get settled Year 1 of a 4 year grant \- might be OK through this administration 50th Anniversary, Robin Alden honored, watch the video, shows the impact of in person gatherings \- [50 Anniversary Film](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RtAjIDriPFs) Linda \- 2 different panels, went well James \- on a panel, about marine debris, well attended, good discussion Lots of students 4\. Upcoming Events Check meeting schedule Open House 5\. Other Linda would  like an order by Friday in order to get the next round of stuff, what do we want to use and/or ‚Äòshow off‚Äô at our next open house Morgan and James are meeting on Wednesday \- furniture focus, maybe some tech Fablab, 3-d printer \- help fishermen get the tools they need to imagine the future of fishing Talk of The Towns meeting Next step \- fisheries planning committee, 135 people on March 7 Next one is on culture \- April 9, May 21 \- education (highlighting the c-hub) Wings, Waves, Woods \- Island Heritage Trust \- will be the week before, C-Hub bird display?, local orgs participating, opportunity to make the c-hub visible, puffin passages \- shoulder season markeing 6\. Next meeting \- check [Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zXA3p5Qh4qj5k9BijppQNqOxrHrebVA1LbA2RPbjkjE/edit?tab=t.0) March 24 \- Core Group April 7 \- Community Meeting \- YT to send it out |
| Monday, Feb. 24, 2025 Attendance \- James, Morgan, Stacey, Kim, Yvonne, Linda 1\. Check Ins/Updates Fisherman‚Äôs Forum\! Building Security \- electrician will be pulling the wire starting next week, everything should be installed by the end of next week (baring snags), then we can order all the tech Maker‚Äôs Space is finished, ready for furniture  Put an order through soon Funding We‚Äôre assuming we have the funding until we hear otherwise, only spending the 25% Linda has heard from Senator Collins office that Inflations Reduction Act funding is threatened, but other funding (CDS) is probably fine  Collins got an exception for Acadia National Park MCCF Great to have the DMR coming in April, train the trainer, likely April 8, 2025 Adult Ed Strategic planning focus groups have started\! Budget meetings are coming up Interviews for an II fellow, offers are going out, should have a fellow in place soon, Lucia‚Äôs last day is Friday NEC Stacey \- waiting for people to come, had a few in, Stacey has been out in the community, doing some more outreach Kim \- infographic about health assessment, flyer is finalized and will be sent out soon, will chat with fishermen at the forum, want to get a press release out, looking for quotes from Linda and Alexa Kim will send flyer to Linda to share with select board Haystack/FabLab Launched second round of Make and Take, 40 seats \- filled within 48 hours, lots of demand Americorp Competition coming this spring \- will come out in 2 weeks, application due in May, service members could start as early as August State-wide, funding seems secure Americorp service member program \- will send info when it goes live in the next few weeks Could be a good fit for the C-Hub, esp. For training the Americorp member to then deliver services at the hub, ex. Digital training, it will likely be young adults Haystack \- doesn‚Äôt have enough service member hours for a full application, so thinking that it‚Äôs better for a collaborative proposal or another C-Hub Happy to support an application when the time comes, we can be thinking about whether it makes sense for us to apply as a C-Hub  Discussion: Staffing \- Linda \- need to figure out staffing for the C-Hub This is a chance for us to describe a new position we could launch Linda \- getting ‚Äòcommercial demand‚Äô for the maker space Could it run as a modern day ‚ÄòKinkos‚Äô, on demand with help There are some well established models for this, and also some unsuccessful ways to do it Important to gather data and do a needs-assessment to determining what is needed locally Haystack \- avoids being a ‚Äòshop‚Äô \- prefers to teach people how to do it themselves Go more towards drone photography and podcasting before custom fabrication Adult Ed directors at the state level are submitting an MCA grant, train the trainer model Hancock County \- looking to get capacity in the county, could pair well with the Americorp \- help address the digital literacy needs Americorp \- Think about it over three years as a pilot/proof of concept, could be continued funding Adult Ed/Project Launch Strategic Planning \- C-hub needs to align with that plan, lots of info coming on Wednesday, then community surveying Morgan \- will put together a sensible budget for SY25/26 that allows for some workforce development, strategic plan will show up more in the SY26/27 Aims to have it done by May or June  Next step: Focus on needs around digital literacy skills and workforce training \- what are the needs and skills and what could realistically be done? Morgan and James \- meet to discuss furniture and initial technology, also pull in Chris and/or Nina to understand the demand ~~Island  Institute~~  2\. Logo plan  [Timeline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lxhvQ5FaLIrWUQF-VfjEYlKYfxvP6q7X8r_svyA2HFA/edit?tab=t.0) [Creative Brief](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jU8v8K4t-0BHsp9rtbXH4ei0ADDlX9RCfvaqhuV9CYM/edit?usp=sharing) Discussion Linda has three designers right in Stonington, running the brief by them and getting an estimate Samantha Hawkins (youngest), Julie Moringelo (lobby space), Susan Robinson (does work for the town) Website \- will be the next step Maryann and the Town? Island needs a comprehensive events site Maryann is a programmer, has been playing around with a model for an events calendar, could live within the hub As the hub, we are the physical place that can be where the digital sources come from Ben is involved, newspaper is slow Needs an authoring platform, some of which could be automated Linda will connect James and Maryann 3\. Upcoming Events Fisherman‚Äôs Forum \- II‚Äôs panel is on Friday, Feb. 28 Mandy, Stacey, Kim will all be there \- table \- health and safety, Stacey James and Linda will be there April \- date TBD \- DMR Train the Trainer session 4\. Other 5\. Next steps March 10  |
| Monday, Feb. 10, 2025 \- Core Group Attendance \- Morgan, Mandy, Stacey, Christa, Kate, Yvonne, Linda 1\. Check Ins/Updates Christa Spoke with Mike Felton about new MCA grant, idea is to feature community-based hubs, other communities that are poised, Coastal Community Hubs Network concept \- addressing local needs and being in an network to share ideas II might be able to be the applicant, but if not, St. George MSU is willing to step up. Christa will share a doc with the MCA LOI questions. Georgetown, Bremen, St. George, Ellsworth, Stonington, maybe Jonesport-Beals \- smaller capacity needs for some, larger for others, sharing a contractor for marketing Morgan  in preliminary conversations with the state \- Megan Dictor \- about Maine Opportunities Grant, adult ed and people who have been incarcerated, follow up meeting with Ander at RSU24 (Hancock County Jail), going to meet with Liz Careso in Somerset County, Mary Lose ‚Ä¶ \- Franklin County c-hub project Christa will pass this along to folks at SCEC,  Regional member of farm drop \- conversation about managing technology Interviewing for a new fellow this week, Lucia‚Äôs last day is Feb. 28 Mandy and Stacey Signage on Stacy‚Äôs office \- Community Health Monitor \- can it be changed to Community Health Worker, can we get MCCF‚Äôs logo on it? Also, telehealth is not currently part of it \- need to clarify this with Kim.  Linda will update the signs. Linda and Stacey and Kim will email about telehealth.  Waiting on telehealth until the equipment is in there, Linda wants education for the community  C-Hub evaluation \- to help implement programs in other communities Mandy will set up a meeting with Yvonne, Christa and Linda apart from this meeting.  Scientific dialogue gathering in Stonington \- health data back to the community Plan to do this at the hub in late March Stacey \- waiting on some paperwork, equipment, barriers have been removed, has had a couple of fishermen in so far, working on that Linda Workforce sub-committee \- lots of talk about apprenticeships and how successful they are, make sure Morgan is hooked into these networks (DOL, and others) Need to look at this more closely, how does it make it out to the remote communities? Linda has some pull here. Fishermen are having a hard time with reporting, need signs to help show what we are doing for fishermen \- Stacey has signs up, has been learning how to do the reporting Morgan \- it might be possible to get someone from DMR to do an official training, we spoke to Carla about this Linda \- texted Carla about scheduling the DMR meeting at the C-Hub, could FabLab/tech people help with this? Librarians and their tech support people? Christa \- what training can be provided at the hub ASAP Look for grants for support at the C-hubs \- ex. Tech support for fishermen Meeting tonight \- Pre-Town-Meeting meeting is tonight Would like flyers or  cards at the Town Hall, need a website for the c-hub, wants to pitch a story about the c-hub to the media It takes time for Stacey to change the flyer, has to be approved, Linda  2\. Debrief St. George/Stonington meeting on Jan. 27 Here are the [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tJL2EsiKGdN0i7LCbh06MjZxjn8mqxMWa2w5pmlMQJQ/edit?usp=sharing) 3\. Follow up/progress on Jan. 6 meeting To Do‚Äôs Review/finalize [Working Agreements](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8aK4VAIa65F2mjcH5VrlrKXuepOzd6uW1yrF3OZCXU/edit?usp=sharing) Review/finalize? Jan. 6 version of the Mission Statement: MISSION *\- Providing DIS and surrounding coastal region ~~area~~ with the community connections, tools, skills, and resources to continue to thrive in the face of change.*  Should we include something about the coastal and maritime aspect of what we are doing, goes beyond fishing \- blue economy  Review/finalize? initial list of Key Priorities:  Supports the Blue Economy (ToS) Supports Digital Literacy (MCA)  Supports Education and Workforce Development (MCA, Adult Ed/PL, Haystack)  High school completion College/career access or transitions Create community through hands-on learning Provide trainings and resources for fishermen and fishing families, with a focus on financial resiliency  Supports Health and Wellness goals  (MCA & NEC)  Bring community partners to the table in a structured way (All \- Hub/Spoke) Be a resource for partner organizations to help us all improve (All \- Hub/Spoke) C-Hub is a *Conduit* C-Hub helps community partners work *In Concert* with each other C-Hub fosters *Coordination, Cooperation and Collaboration*, not competition C-Hub provides a physical space as well as a broader sense of regional connection (All \- Hub/Spoke) Review ideas for a visual/org structure [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18XBV2Rp7EZWSMmaIIfOdD2YyEdsnSoEZqHC6PmC3H0M/edit?usp=sharing) Continue discussion/plans for logo, website, updated pagers, etc. Need timelines for when we want things \- YT to make a timeline for these things  5\. Other Check meeting schedule [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zXA3p5Qh4qj5k9BijppQNqOxrHrebVA1LbA2RPbjkjE/edit?tab=t.0) \- next meeting is set to with the core group on Feb. 24 James is working independently on the security for the C-Hub. Will be completed within the next month. Linda will need info on what needs to be ordered next. Text Linda when you make changes on the spreadsheet.  L desk has come in, but nothing else. Linda will check with the office.  6\. Next steps  |
| Monday, Feb. 3, 2025 \- Core Group \- cancelled  |
| Monday, Jan. 27 \- St. George and Stonington C-Hub Community Partners Meeting [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tJL2EsiKGdN0i7LCbh06MjZxjn8mqxMWa2w5pmlMQJQ/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Monday, Jan. 13, 2025 \- Core Group Attendance: Mandy, Morgan, Yvonne, James, Christa, Kate 1\. Check ins/Updates Yvonne \- Cleaned up notes from  Jan. 6 \- In Person Workshop Meeting Notes are [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jG0MpojlH0uGEX9bpj4oisusPe0pwtY20jWAFWvXc9o/edit?usp=sharing) Mandy: Happy to be back  Stacey is doing well, Kim is working closely with her, concerns about the sound in the room and privacy Some measures were taken during the renovations, but it is not sound proof Morgan may have another room available that can be used in the near  term  PT discussion \- from a fishing family, very well respected by fishermen, doesn‚Äôt take insurance White noise makers can help as well Morgan \- Promethean board is up and very exciting\! Starting to use it, mission work helped inform work with Adult Ed and PL, met with Ron Beard James \- First week back, launching summer programming offerings, some community programming starts this week, good debrief with Perry and Phoebe, both will likely attend the next meeting that makes sense for them Linda is working to get building and internet service online, still in the works Kate \- all good, Lucia‚Äôs position will be posted likely today, hiring to get that position filled ASAP Christa \- Digital Opportunity Networks Grant \- we‚Äôre not the only one‚Äôs seeking clarity, stressing to MCA that Adult Eds are a key place for this work, could there be a proposal that would bring resources to county jail (devises), Adult Eds \- helps with reaching the incarcerated/formerly incarcerated population Christa looking to get more info on what kind of digital learning is offered in Maine‚Äôs jails through Franklin Adult Ed contacts \- might be an opportunity to work together to bring more resources to Adult Eds all these areas Big question \- who would the lead applicant be? OR \- build a coastal application with other orgs (ex. SBDC) \- focus on human capacity and devices 2.. Plan next meeting \- Monday January 27th: Community Partners Lunch with St. George 12-1:45 Discussion: We should go ahead and have it even if Linda isn‚Äôt able to attend  to keep the momentum of partners going Don‚Äôt necessarily need to share any of the info that has been developed on Jan. 6 Focus the Jan. 27 meeting on connecting St. George and Stonignton, community partners match-making Focus the programming side of thing \- existing programming and new programming  NEC \- Kim can be in person, Kate can come 3\. Review/finalize [Working Agreements](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r8aK4VAIa65F2mjcH5VrlrKXuepOzd6uW1yrF3OZCXU/edit?usp=sharing) 4\. Review most current version of the Mission Statement and initial list of Key Priorities:   MISSION *\- Providing the DIS area with the community connections, tools, skills, and resources to continue to thrive in the face of change.*  KEY PRIORITIES (initial list):  Supports the Blue Economy (ToS) Supports Digital Literacy (MCA)  Supports Education and Workforce Development (MCA, Adult Ed/PL, Haystack)  High school completion College/career access or transitions Create community through hands-on learning Provide trainings and resources for fishermen and fishing families, with a focus on financial resiliency  Supports Health and Wellness goals  (MCA & NEC)  Bring community partners to the table in a structured way Be a resource for partner organizations to help us all improve  C-Hub is a *Conduit* C-Hub helps community partners work *In Concert* with each other C-Hub fosters *Coordination, Cooperation and Collaboration*, not competition C-Hub provides a physical space as well as a broader sense of regional connection Discussion: Adult ed language to include: Haystack \- Supporting educational hands on experiences, connecting people through hands-on learning Island Institute \- FOF language \- To provide **opportunities, trainings, and resources** for lobster fishermen to increase their income and financial resiliency by diversifying their income sources.  Enhance **education and workforce pathways** for lobstering communities 5\. Discuss Branding/Logo Next Steps See notes and image suggestion in Jan. 6 notes Develop plan for how we move forward with logo development \- Canva? (who?), hire a designer? Discussion: We might not be quite ready to work with a designer, finish fleshing out the mission and key priorities first to further inform the visual, need Linda‚Äôs input Fiver \- platform for hiring freelance contractors could be a good resource when we have the design request more clarified, and there are local people who could help as well when we are further along 6\. Leadership \- work on some type of ‚Äòorg chart‚Äô based on Jan. 6 meeting discussion Continue with current arrangement in the near term Look to increased leadership from Adult Ed in the future Haystack \- TBD Lots of programming support from other orgs as the hub develops  Consider MCA grant for more capacity 7\. Funding Updates Haystack \- pending Americorp grant opportunity, some ground work is already done from other grants, could add capacity in the near term, James will keep us informed on this Haystack is probably not the right fit to go it alone with an Americorp application The school may be interested Island Institute \- just completed a report on our Americorp experience with digital inclusion/connectivity core work 8\. Programming Updates Winter Fest this weekend  Healthy Island Project \- community breakfast is tomorrow, Morgan will be there tomorrow and will report out about the C-Hub 9\. Other C-Hub moment \- HiSet student, Y-ICC, Stacey, lots of connections for this one student, great to have the resources right there 10\. Next meeting \- Jan. 28 \- Community Partners [2025 Calendar](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zXA3p5Qh4qj5k9BijppQNqOxrHrebVA1LbA2RPbjkjE/edit?usp=sharing) (Jan-June)    |
| Monday, Jan. 6 \- In Person Workshop Meeting Notes are [HERE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jG0MpojlH0uGEX9bpj4oisusPe0pwtY20jWAFWvXc9o/edit?usp=sharing) |

